---
layout:       single
title:        "My Corona » <title>: <title>"
date:         2020-04-20 10:09:09 -04:00
categories:   COVID-19
---

# Thesis Journal

Corona entry.

# Dano et al.

it's taken me three weeks to get my mother out of the city to our cabin in the Catskills, and another week and a half to get us situated. she's 81 and lives alone in NYC. the cabin is in the woods off a rural dirt road. we use smartphones and cellular data for email and rudimentary web browsing when we're here but the reception is barely sufficient to provide between 1 to 3Mbps. I haven't been able to participate in remote Zoom sessions. we happen to live along a sliver of the county that was part of the first phase of the Delaware County Broadband Initiative so there is broadband to be had but the line needs to be run up a field to the house and the soonest available installation date is six and a half weeks out.

my thesis was hit especially hard due to significant fabrication needs and, ironically, a premise that requires two people sitting opposite one another. there is plenty of code to work on but I've already spent $1,500 on materials and peripherals for the installation and in an effort to get started early I began working on the project during winter recess. I believe my thesis has merit and find the prospect of starting over daunting if not a little heartbreaking.

# Emily

tomorrow (Thursday) I'm taking my mother out of the city and shifting upstate for the foreseeable future (if there is such a thing anymore). the cabin is in the woods and we have no broadband which is going to make Zoom a challenge. there's cellular data so I will have connectivity but it's slow, maybe 3Mbps, sometimes a little higher while the trees are still bare.

...

I managed to get my mother out of the city and to our place in the Catskills. it's been snowing here, another three inches just last night, and I've had to keep the wood burning stove going since we arrived. it's been a lot of work. another 14 day quarantine; supply runs to town that take the better part of a day; cooking meals large enough to freeze leftovers; reassessing finances; finding new solutions to old regimens. my adopted sister gave birth to her first child last week prior to which we'd been in a somewhat heightened state of anxiety, not just for the usual reasons but additionally so because of the number of COVID-19 cases at Albany Medical Center where she delivered. we weren't able to be there, nor have we seen her and the baby other than in photos, despite being a mere 45 minute drive away.

I think I mentioned when I wrote last but there is no broadband at the cabin and so I haven't been able to participate in any remote classroom stuff since leaving the city. connectivity involves the telephone company running a line from the road up a field to the house but the soonest they say they can do the work is May 28th.

# Sukanya

it's good to be out of the city but the house is out in the woods and it's pretty remote. in some ways it's freeing, in others it sort of magnifies the whole distancing thing. I haven't been able to do any of the remote classroom stuff and I feel totally cut off from ITP. absurdly we're on a dirt road in a particular sliver of the county where they've hung fiber along the telephone poles as part of a rural broadband development scheme but the line needs to be run from the road up the field to the house and the soonest they can do the work is May 28th.
